This is one of the tales in the Tutinama. This is Tuti, the parrot who will
be telling this story to keep his owner, Khojisteh, from sneaking off to meet
with her lover.
Khojisteh, before you go and *try* meeting with your lover again. Would you like
to listen to the tale of the Four Rich Men who became poor?
Oh, no I shouldn’t. I best be off to my...
Very Well. *clears throat* Once upon a time, there were four friends. The four
men on the bottom right were very rich until they suddenly became very poor.
They sought out the merchant for help. The merchant listened to their troubles
and decided to help them. He handed each of the men a brown magical shell,
instructing them to place it on their turbans. He told the men that the shells
would lead them to their destined fortune, wherever they dropped, fortune would
lay. The friends secured their shells to their turbans, and excitedly set off
together to find their new fortunes. After walking for several minutes, the first
shell fell. The first man dug and dug where the shell landed. He found a copper
mine. He turned to his friends and asked them to stay and share in the fortune
they could earn from the metal. The three men refused, and continued on to
search for their own destiny. Soon after, the second shell fell. The second man
dug, and discovered a silver mine. He turned to his remaining two friends and
asked them to stay with him. However, they refused once more.
The last two men with their shells continued on the journey for great fortune.
Soon after the third shell fell, and then discovered a gold
mine. The third man begged his last friend and travel-mate to stay. But he refused
the offer again.
The three discovered metals; copper, silver, and gold, were all used as currency
of the Mughal era. Especially, the gold was a symbol of wealth and power, and gold
coins were used for ceremonial purposes. Copper coins were mainly used for small
transactions, however other materials (like sea shells and almonds) were used with
the same functions in the outskirts of the Mughal Empire.
The fourth man believed he would find something more precious like jewels. He
began to see a trend, the more they travelled the more valuable the mineral.
Unfortunately for him… DUN DUN DUUUN… His shell led to him a mine of iron metal.
In the Mughal Era, iron wasn’t minted and used as a Mughal currency like the first
three metals. It was mainly used for weaponry not just in Mughal India but in
Europe as well. Gun production began much later in Babur’s reign in the 15th century.
You can see on his painted face, the crease of the eyebrows possibly showing angst
and the frown of the lips. Iron was worth a lot less than the copper, silver, and
gold metals in that time period.
In his despair, he decided to go back to his friend’s in hopes that their offer
was still open. But after searching for a long time, they were nowhere to be
found. Failing to find them, he reluctantly tried to go back to his own mine.
However, that too has disappeared.
The fourth man abandoned his friends in search for his great fortune. Realizing
that he missed the opportunities because of his greed, he was left with nothing.
The End.
*clapping* That was a great story, Tuti. But now I have to meet my lover later
tonight now that it's sunrise.